FRONT END DEVELOPMENT:

AJAX - Asynchronous Javascript And XML 
A set of web techniques where web apps can send data to and from a server in background (async) without any changes to the webpage for the user. Its used when you interact with a portion of a page and the entire page doesn't need to reload. 
It combines JS, HTML, CSS and XMLHttpRequest Obj.

CSS - Casading Style Sheets.
Language of Rules that effect the styling of HTML content.

HTML5 - Hypertext Markup Language 5.
Newest iteration of HTML, a language that defines what structures exist on a webpage.

HTTPS - Hypertext Transfer Protocol.
The HTTPS denotes that the website is secure and all communications between your browser and the site are encrypted.

JS - Javascript
Programming Language that allows for complex and interactive webpage experiences. 

JSON - Javascript Object Notation.
Text, written in a minimal, text-only formay. It transmits data between a server and a web app. Similar to XML and is quicker to read, write, and can also be parsed by a normal javascript function.

XML - Extensible Markup Language.
XML carries data and explains what it is. It's a standalone object. Requires a seperate bit of code to reference it in order to display, recieve, send, or store it.

BACK END DEVELOPMENT:

REST - Representational State Transfer, similar to SOAP.
Web service communication protocol.
REST differs from SOAP in that it allows multiple data formats, where SOAP only allows XML. 
REST is generally faster and uses less bandwidth.
// http
// making requests to servers, recieving responses from servers
// anything that does this is considered Restful


API - Application Programming Interface.
It allows two tools to connect with each other. It includes details on how data is structured, and how objects/classes/methods are defined.

CMS - Content Management System.
A Software application or program that allows you to manage your online content without writing code. Any website that letsyou type and change the format of text with buttons utilizes CMS

CRON - Command Run ON: aka CRONJOB
Software devs yse cron to scedule an event that runs at a set time or interval. Think of an emailed update, or syncing to another program to maintain the correct time in an app.

CRUD -
Create, Read, Update, Delete.
Basic app functions. Creating a new item, Reading existing items, updating existing items, and deleting items.
Think MVP for facespace.

FTP - File Transfer Protocol.
This is a protocol designed for transferring files over the web from a client to a server. Commonly used to access a remote file on a network computer. Not used much anymore.

LAMP - Linux, Apache, MySQL, PHP
This is the original open-source software stack that future stacks were modeled after. Nowadays, lamp is used to describe other stacks that are modeled similarly, but doesn't necessarily contain those four tools.

MVC - Model View Controller
The Model View Controller is a design pattern. There is also a Framework of the same name, and frameworks come with opinions about design pattern.

1) A design pattern is not a framework. A design pattern - a disciplineed approach to solving a code problem. Promotes clean code.

2) A framework has specific dependencies that dictate when to use it. Can be more complicated and risky.

At its core, the MVC design pattern is about a clean cut seperation of concerns. Clean code, make the solution intelligible.

OAuth - Open Authentication.
The industry standard protocol for Authorization. Authorization dictates who can access what in an application, which can refer to permission tiers in an application. Some users can access 10%, some 100%

OOP - Object-Oriented-Programming
Most comonly used progamming languages on the web are object oriented programming languages.
OOP is based on objects (data), and their attributes, and how code interacts with these items.

PHP - Personal Home Page, now PHP Hypertext Preprocessor

RoR -

SDK -

SOAP -

SQL -

VCS -

WYSIWYG -

TESTING:

QA -

UAT -



